Define behaviour of [[ and $ (#644)
tidyverse/tibble: vignettes/invariants.Rmd

)
```

This vignette defines invariants for subsetting and subset-assignment for tibbles, and illustrates where their behaviour differs from data frames. 
The goal is to define a small set of invariants that consistently define how behaviors interact. 
Some behaviors are defined using functions of the vctrs package, e.g. `vctrs::vec_slice()`, `vctrs::vec_recycle()` and `vctrs::vec_as_index()`. 
Refer to their documentation for more details about the invariants that they follow.

The subsetting and subassignment operators for data frames and tibbles are particularly tricky, because they support both row and column indexes, both of which are optionally missing.

> We resolve this by first defining with `[[`, then colum-wise subsetting with `[`, then row-wise subsetting, then the composition of both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We resolve this by first defining column access with `[[` and `$`, then column-wise subsetting with `[`, then row-wise subsetting, then the composition of both.
```

with_df(df$n <- rev(df$n), verbose = TRUE)
```

# Column subsetting

## Definition of `x[[j]]`

`x[[j]]` is equal to `.subset2(x, j)`. 

> <!-- HW: This feels like too much detail: maybe after the first example it could just show all.equal(df1, .subset2[[1]])` -->

Reviewer: Agreed. Perhaps even `identical()` ?

.subset2(df2, 2)
```

NB: `x[[j]]` always returns an object of size `nrow(x)` if the column exists.

`j` must be a single number or a string, as enforced by `vec_as_index(j)`.

```{r double-bracket-requires-scalar-j-index, dftbl = TRUE}
df[[1:2]]
df[[c("n", "c")]]
df[[TRUE]]
df[[mean]]
```

> <!-- HW: the failure with mean needs a better error. -->

Reviewer: https://github.com/r-lib/vctrs/issues/574

Missing and out-of-bounds (OOB) values of `j` return `NULL` with a warning or error:

```{r double-bracket-j-na, dftbl = TRUE}
df[[NA_character_]]
df[["x"]]

df[[NA_integer_]]
df[[-1]]
df[[4]]
```

> <!-- HW: why is x[[NA]] an OOB error and not a type error? -->

Reviewer: Can we review and prioritize error messages after we're done defining behavior? I haven't paid too much attention yet, some messages aren't defined yet (instead an error of the type "function `error_...()` not found" is raised).

Author: Ok, I'll just leave these comments where we need to refine behaviour to match invariants.

> OOB access only generate a warning because a common existing idioms is to check for the absense of a column with `is.null(df$x)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OOB access only generates a warning because a common existing idiom is to check for the absence of a column with `is.null(df$x)`.
```

Non-integer numeric values produce an error:

```{r, double-bracket-numeric, dftbl = TRUE}
df[[1.5]]
```

## Definition of `x$name`

> `x$name` is equal to `x[["name"]]`.

Reviewer: I'm using "equivalent" to indicate that this holds both for subsetting and subassignment, "equal" seems weaker. Is this important?

We could keep one subset and one subassign example. I agree that the battery of examples is overkill here.

Author: I used equals to match all the wording in vctrs
